# Energy efficient predictive coding networks

## Description
Supplementary material for 'Predictive coding is a consequence of energy efficiency in recurrent  neural networks'

### Dependencies
1. Numpy
2. Matplotlib
2. PyTorch 1.4.0
3. Python  >= 3.7 

### Usage Notes:
- To replicate the results in the paper, please see [paper_results.ipynb](https://github.com/KietzmannLab/EmergentPredictiveCoding/blob/master/paper_results%20.ipynb)  
- To produce the 10 model instances used in determining the model preactivations, please run train_models.py:

```python train_models.py```


The script will automatically run on a gpu if a gpu is available and cuda is set up. Otherwise the script will run on the cpu.

### Data set
We use the MNIST database of handwritten digits (LeCun, 1998). We created a wrapper 'mnist.py' that transforms the mnist digits into sequences of digits in ascending order (with wraparound at 9 and 0). The sequenced data set is used as data for the networks. The appropriate training and test data can be created by simply calling: 
```import mnist```
```training_set, validation_set, test_set = mnist.load(val_ratio=0.0)```

The (batches of) sequences can then be generated by:
``` batches, labels = dataset.create_batches(batch_size=batch_size, sequence_length=sequence_length, shuffle=True)```
Where 'dataset denotes training_set, validation_set or test_set'. 


### Usage Conditions
If you use this code in your work, we ask you to please cite:
Ali, A., Ahmad N., de Groot E., van Gerven M.A.J., Kietzmann T.C. (2021). **Predictive coding is a consequence of energy efficiency in recurrent neural networks.** 


### References
Ali, A., Ahmad N., de Groot E., van Gerven M.A.J., Kietzmann T.C. (2021). **Predictive coding is a consequence of energy efficiency in recurrent neural networks.** 

LeCun, Y., Bottou, L., Bengio, Y., & Haffner, P. (1998). **Gradient-based learning applied to document recognition.** Proceedings of the IEEE, 86(11), 2278-2324.

### more details will follow soon







